Greetings
and a warm good evening
from Southern California.
My name is Joe Simpson, Jr.
I'm the volunteer wrangler for
WordPress Accessibility Day.
I'm also a WordCamp,
WordPress meetup,
WordCamp organizer, community
and accessibility advocate.
At my second
WordCamp Los Angeles,
I saw this fiery ball of energy
and artistic-ness up on stage,
presenting and
commanding the stage,
and I thought, "I
think I wanna do that.
I wanna get up on
stage and speak."
All these years later, it is
my sincere pleasure
to introduce her to you.
Okay, Alicia St. Rose began her
adventure with WordPress when
a UX friend offhandedly
suggested using the CMS
for a mutual friend's website.
That was over ten years ago
and the adventure has turned
into a torrid love affair.
Now she's a freelance developer,
exclusively powered by
WordPress, and has yet to find
a limitation in her magical--in
this magical piece of software.
She is the owner, principal
designer, and developer at
WP with Heart, a small agency
that employs one, so far.
In addition to creating for
WordPress, she provides
an online one-on-one coaching
for DIY website creators.
She's also a creativity and
mind shift mentor,
empowering people to
bust through their own
limitations in order to
radically express their
authentic and creative
ideas and selves.
I'd love to introduce to
you, presenting "Adventures in
Accessibility: How Embracing
Accessibility Made Me a Better
Storyteller," Alicia St. Rose.
Take it away.
Hello.
Hello, everyone.
Thank you so much
for that introduction.
I'm just really touched.
Wow.
So, I wanna make sure that
all the technical aspects
are set up here.
I'm getting ready to share
my screen, and I want
the thumbs-up that you can
actually see it, okay?
So, I don't want any--anything
to thwart our experience.
So, let me--
Can everyone see the slide in--
for the slideshow?
I can't actually see any
thumbs-up, unfortunately,
because now I just see my
slideshow, so I'm gonna assume,
no one's told me it's not
up, so here we go.
So, "Adventures in
Accessibility: How Embracing
Accessibility Made Me
a Better Storyteller."
So, every story starts with
"once upon a time," and so this
story has to start with
that as well, and I'm going
to go back to the not-so-distant
past with my story.
I'm going to go back to
January 1, 2020, when I woke up
on that day excited about what
this year was going to bring.
It was gonna be
different, I could feel it,
but I had no idea how
different it was going to be.
And so, in March,
things drastically
changed around the world.
I mean, they were certainly
changing unbeknownst to a lot of
us on this Western Hemisphere,
and then they changed
drastically for
the entire world.
And in that time, within that
time, technology seems to
have had a renaissance and
a bursting forth into some
expansiveness that I've
not seen in my lifetime.
And with that I--it brought some
limitations that were always
there on the web and
in technological areas,
but they became
increasingly obvious.
So, I will tell you a little bit
about me before we get
into the accessibility
adventure.
So, I started my web development
career by wanting to make my
blogger website look better
when I moved over to WordPress,
and so I spent an entire
night trying to find out what a
hashtag and three Cs meant when
there was a hashtag and six Cs,
and I couldn't make it work.
And I didn't understand it,
and so I ended up going to a
bookstore at 6--you know,
I stayed up till 6 a.m.,
and I rushed off to a bookstore
as soon as it opened in the
morning, and I came out with a
book called "The Headfirst
Guide to HTML and CSS."
It jump-started my
career as a web developer.
I had no idea that I
would be into that,
that I would turn into a geek.
I actually was a fine
artist up until that moment,
and my drawing table got dusty
as I realized that part--the
other part of my mind
really wanted to learn
something every single day.
And every single day I did when
I was doing web development,
especially as I was
learning, so I was self-taught.
I learned from books, and
I'm very detail-oriented,
so every time
something came up, I
would do a little Google search.
We all went to
Google U to do this.
That's what we do now, and
there's nothing--there's no
shame in that, by the way.
So, I, over the years, I became
better and better at the web
development thing, and then
I found out about WordCamps.
And had no idea these existed
and went to my first one in
Orange County, 2014,
and I found my people.
And it was an
amazing experience.
And I'm the type of
person that wants to inspire,
to empower, and teach, and when
I realized there was two days of
that, that people could show up
and just talk about WordPress
and how it inspired
them and how they could,
like, impart that information
to others and kinda grow the
community, and I was hooked.
And so then I went from
the WordCamps to meetups,
so I had my own meetup
here in Santa Barbara.
I have it currently, and
it's the South Central Coast
WordPress Adventure Group.
Found out that the Central Coast
all--goes all the way to Santa
Cruz, and I was not
willing to drive that far,
so it's South Central.
So now, you see I
am detail-oriented,
to that point that I can't
even geographically mix.
So, in one of my
meetups very recently,
within this year of
2020, a woman showed up,
and her name is
Sumner Davenport.
And you
will--you'll meet her later,
very shortly, if you
haven't met her already.
And she showed up
at one of my meetups,
and she just discussed
something about accessibility.
And I had heard about
it, and I thought,
"Yeah, I know what that is.
It means that, you know,
people should be able to,
you know, read whatever is on
the web and not have it hidden
from them, that in my vague--my
vague idea of it is that they
just need to get
the information.
And that's vitally important."
I didn't think their
experience had to be the same.
That night, when she showed
up to my WordPress meetup,
she informed me but--that the
experience being the same is
actually essential because it
really isn't fair that someone
can't enjoy the same experience.
Not only that, it was
violating civil rights,
and I was like, "Whoa!"
I was totally like, "Whoa!"
And at the--as she was talking,
I literally went to a client's
website and took off what is
called an overlay that I had
thought I was so crafty at putting
on his site to protect him,
but I'd actually
done the opposite.
And in that
moment I realized, A,
I had a goldmine at
my WordPress meetup,
I was just like, "Oh, wow.
I just totally fell into the
right company with this one."
And then, from that moment on I
realized that there was a lot
more to this web
thing that I didn't know,
and then I
started to feel really,
really kind of heavy about it.
And I thought, "Shoot.
This is more work
than I thought,
and I'm like feeling a little
bit overwhelmed about this.
I don't know if I'm gonna
be able to pull this off."
And it just became this--now
it seemed where I was very,
very detail-oriented and very
careful about what I did with
web, that now I had gone back
several meters to the starting
line of, "Oh, my gosh.
There's all this accessibility
stuff that I don't know.
And I'm gonna have
to catch up with that.
And I'm in the midst
of a project right now,
and I know right now that some
of the stuff that I'm doing even
on that site is not accessible.
And I haven't even
launched that yet,
and I'm just about
ready to do it."
So, I had to
actually let that soak in.
I had to realize that, at some
point, is gotta put the big-girl
panties on, and I had to
realize that this is a part
of what a website entails.
It can't actually
be an afterthought.
It can't actually be something
that you can put in later or
maybe someone won't
notice, and so I decided,
"I'm just gonna
have to embrace it.
Take a deep breath and
just learn what you can,
and the people
will fall in line.
They will show up to help."
And Sumner kept
coming to my
meetup, which was awesome.
I started going to her meetup.
Then wonderful, wonderful
presentations by people.
Some of them you've
seen already today,
Meryl and several other, like,
amazing presentations put on by
the San Fernando Valley Meetup,
which is accessibility-based.
And I realized this was actually
gonna be fun, and that there
were so many people on board and
so passionate about helping
other people get access to the
Internet, especially in a time
right now where they're inside,
quarantined in some cases,
and in a lot of cases--because
some people who are diff-abled,
or disabled, if they
would wanna be called that,
have health issues that they
don't actually wanna be exposed
to other viruses, so they were
really--there's a lot of people
who are really depending
on the Internet to be
their window to the world.
And when I found out that
only 2% of that could actually
facilitate that
experience for them,
I was even more disappointed
and even deeply was
disappointed because I
realized that if it was 2%,
they were probably only
the government websites.
And that's not gonna be--I
know you wanna get information
for--you know,
during a pandemic,
but sometimes you
wanna be entertained,
and you wanna go shopping,
and you wanna buy food,
and you wanna do
all these things.
And so, I realized, "Wow,
I don't wanna be a part of that.
I wanna be a part of bringing
joy to someone who is surfing
the web, and they've gone
through site after site,
and then they land on the one
that I've made for somebody."
And my clients are
benefiting too
because now
everyone can have access.
And so, I decided--after I
decided that I was gonna embrace
this, I realized that there were
some gifts in this and that they
improved my actual--my value and
the way that I tell stories for
my clients, because building
a website is not--it's not
some, what's the word?
It's not a basic
or vanilla task, okay?
You are telling someone's
story when you put
a website up for them.
It's not, "I'm gonna go drag
something around and make
it look pretty for you."
It is how are they--you
expressing their inner
motivations and passion to
the audience that they want to
receive that, and so it is
like storytelling for them,
or even movie
scripting, or whatever it is.
It's not a basic tech task.
There's a lot of
humanity in making a website,
and so this aspect of adding
accessibility even brings more
humanity to it, because it's
actually a--I don't know the
word I'm looking for.
It's an honorable thing to do,
to bring access to those who do
not have it at the moment.
So, one of the things that I
did learn on my adventure to
this storytelling is that the
sensitivity to others' needs is
actually in the forefront of
every decision that I make when
I'm building the website.
Oh, my goodness.
Let me cancel that.
Now I can see myself.
Okay, so, I'm sorry.
Some wild thing just
happened on my screen,
and it took me aback.
A bunch of things just opened
up, and I'm gonna close this.
Okay, so I'm back.
So, the sensitivity to others'
needs became the permeating
intention to everything
that I did on the site.
And it wasn't just the
sensitivity to the visitors'
needs, which has always
been the thing that was
more important to me.
I did not ignore
the clients' needs.
They always had these specific
things that they wanted.
They always had these design or
aesthetic ideas that they needed
to have on the website.
It was kinda like one of those
cooking shows where they give
you some Chiclets, a
bagel, and a Pop-Tart,
and you got to make up
a five-course meal
out of that, you know
what I'm saying?
Like, sometimes that happens,
and you get Comic Sans and you
get fuchsia, and you're like, "I
got to work this out somehow,"
and so that's where the
creativity comes from.
Your creativity comes
from, like, what you
would sometimes call a
limitation, but it's not.
It's a parameter which you
work in, and it actually
creates--it makes you more
creative, so my sensitivity to
others' needs was something I
learned, and it became,
actually, this fun way of
dealing with content and layout.
It's like, "So, if someone
needed to tab through
this, what do we have to do?"
And then, to make sure that
you're happy with having this
kind of cool hero image
with only--we can do this.
We can merge the two.
We can make it work, so the
sensitivity to others' needs was
really, really important.
Also, as--whoops.
As I got deeper and deeper
into the accessibility--oops.
I skipped a slide.
There it is.
Okay.
I have a delay.
Okay, as I got better--as I
got more and more into the
accessibility and
getting more information,
my education of even web
development became--got better,
and then improving skills.
And every time I learned
something and I imparted it to
my clients, it was--the fun part
was actually explaining this
stuff to my clients and
explaining how important it was.
And then, in my experience, the
people I've told have felt the
levity and the
importance of this.
They realize that it's
to be taken seriously,
and they actually feel honored
that they could be a part of
making the web better, so--and
actually relieved
that I care about it too.
So, there are clients out there
who really want people to help
them with this kind of stuff,
and so--and if they do run into
developers or people who
think it's not important,
part of the
client's kinda like
feeling a little
uneasy about that,
because it's their job and their
business that's on the line.
So, you won't get--I don't
really get a negative response
when I bring up the
accessibility stuff.
I get surprise because they
didn't realize how important it
has gotten, but I do not
get any kind of negatives.
So, there was the
education and skills.
Of course, it's something
that makes you more valuable
as a web developer.
Also, it became--I became a
better observer of my world
because now it was a user
experience not in the tech
sense but just in a sense that
was more global or universal.
You talk about the journey of
the client through your website.
Now you have to think about
the journey of someone who,
let's just put it this way,
broke both their wrists and
can't use the keyboard.
It's not necessarily someone who
is paralyzed and can never walk
again or use their arms.
Some of these things are
temporary and there might be
very, very--a very serious
or important need to get to a
website in those six months or
four months that you have two
casts on your arms.
So, when they say a percentage
of people using the web who have
accessibility issues, I'm
not sure they even count the
temporary people that are
flowing in and out of that at
any given time, so
you have to--so,
you became--not only did I
become a better observer of the
world in that way, but also the
information and content that my
client was
putting on the website.
I had one client
who, he is an artist,
a veneer artist, and he
had a lot of art pieces,
and he was using these prime
symbols for inches and feet.
And I had to go investigate
whether the screen reader,
all of them, would pick that up,
and it didn't seem likely the
way we were designing
everything, so I actually
revamped that whole thing to
say "inches" and "feet,"
they're actually
spelled out--and centimeters.
And in the course of that, I
also discovered a lot about his
veneer work and
what he was doing.
And also in the content,
there were things that were
alphabetized, like
common names of wood,
that are never to
be alphabetized,
and a screen reader
would have taken that as,
"Oh, we're talking about a
proper noun called Pine.
Maybe it's a city or something."
But you can't do
that, so we
learned--I learned
things like that.
I was able to
explain it to the client,
was able to explain to 'em
that a genus and a species,
you only alphabetize the genus.
So, I learned all these
things by being attentive to
accessibility, and so
it's not really dry.
It's really--it's
almost kinda fun.
It's like having a lesson in
life or what your client does at
all times, and when your client
feels like you're that invested
or you're that knowledgeable
about what they do,
they actually
value you more too
and they feel very safe
with you working with them
because they know that you
care about their business,
sometimes almost as much
as they care about it
themselves, or sometimes more.
So, that was one of the
things, became a better
observer of the world.
And, finally, of course,
this is what this is called.
I became a better storyteller.
Like, I could tell
their story better,
and I could--accessibility
helped me--carved a way for--it
carved a path for me to follow.
It was--it almost kinda
reined everything in.
So, sometimes when
there's content, it's like,
"What do I say and
how do I say it?"
But when you're thinking,
"Well, how do I say it
so everyone will get access?"
it almost makes it easier to
create the content, so I became
a better storyteller for what
my client was trying to do.
And that's what everyone is
trying to do on the internet.
They're trying to
tell their own story,
and so you wanna be that person
to facilitate that for them,
not necessarily just
give them a website.
That's not what we do.
You developers out there, we
just don't give people websites.
It's an experience.
It really is, and
so--and it's their story.
And--every story
has--there's an end.
There is an end to a story, but
the end is just the beginning in
this one because you
are never going
to stop learning this stuff.
There's always
gonna be something new,
some new
technology coming along.
It was like that before
even accessibilities
became a big thing.
If you thought you were gonna
stop learning because you were
doing, you know, web stuff, that
there was one point where you
were gonna Google
your last code snippet,
that time was never coming.
There was always an opportunity
to learn, and right now, anyone
who's been watching any of these
sessions and getting any of this
information that's been
dispensed throughout the
day--valuable, valuable
information--you're learning
some really
amazing, amazing tools.
That you are ready to go out to
the world and make it a better
place for other people to get to
the web and also to bring more
value to clients, so this
is just the beginning of
everything, and just
the beginning for me
because, to be honest,
I have not taken
any certification courses.
All of this is from
meetups and working on websites.
And every, you
know, step that I take,
I do a little bit
of a search and go, "Hmm.
Is that appropriate?"
and then I learn that way.
So, what I wanted to
instill in people who felt
overwhelmed--because even
during some of the sessions,
I saw some chat information.
I saw some very informative
chat about people--you
know who you are too.
We joked about it.
Wanted to give up their
career because this looked too
overwhelming, and I know exactly
how the person felt because
that's how I felt
in the beginning too,
but it's not
really like that.
It's like--it's more like,
"Oh, my god.
Look at this horizon just opened
up for you to help people."
And all of these
people, talented people,
who are jumping on board and
sharing their knowledge and
really taking it seriously,
and right now is
just the beginning of that.
And if 2% of the web is
accessible, that means 98% of it
is just flapping out there in
the wind, low-hanging
fruit ready for
you to just go and grab it.
There was enough in
Jerry Jones' talk to
get you started, okay?
I'm serious, you could tell your
clients how to put their content
in correctly, and that'll save
almost two-thirds of their
issues of any kind
of accessibility,
you know, red flags.
So, it's just the beginning,
it's awesome, and so what
I wanted to do now--first
of all, that's my last slide.
That is my name.
"St." is not a middle name.
My last name is St. Rose, so
it causes a lot of problems with
computers and fields and stuff.
I'm often called
"Strose," but that's not it.
You can find me on
Twitter with IntrepidRealist,
and my website is
wpwithheart.com,
and what I do there is I do--I
coach people one on one how to
put their websites up, but we
don't even start building a
website for a while, 'cause no
one should until they know what
they're doing and
why they're doing it.
So, you can find me there, but
what I wanted to do was I wanted
to demonstrate a few things that
I've done since that fateful
meeting in that meetup, and
one of 'em is actually
quite recent, so let's see.
I'm gonna escape here, and
we're gonna move this over.
I don't know
what's on the screen.
Okay, so, I don't think you guys
need to see the Slack here.
I'll close that.
Let me close that.
One of the things
that happened--
and this is fairly recent.
So, there was a discussion.
I can't remember.
Sorry, I was--I
should look this up.
There was a wonderful
presentation
by a woman from Florida.
She was a UX designer, and she
talked about designing the UX
with accessibility in mind.
Like, before even a
designer comes in,
she's laying out, you know,
the content, those whole things.
Oh, my god, I can't remember
what they were called.
Anyway, like, the main
content, the sidebar,
and the footer,
and all that stuff,
all that's
planned ahead of time,
so going in and trying to drag
something around without having
that planning is really not
the best way to go about it.
So, one of the things that just
popped out for me from that talk
and what I'm trying to
instill here is that if you're a
developer and you think this is
a whole bunch of stuff you have
to learn, just take one piece
at a time and implement it.
So, what she told me--it's
during--in a shopping
site--that it's better to have
the product image on the right
because as someone comes through
the page, they're going to hit
the content, the text
first as a screen reader.
It's vital--more important to
hit that first than the picture,
which is just an illustration
of what's gonna probably be
described over here, and
so I managed to do
that with WooCommerce.
And not only does this
picture show up on the site,
but it's actually the third
thing that shows up on the page.
And I was able to use what's
called Flexbox and flex order to
actually swap the
order of the picture.
So, I moved it to its--the third
position, where it would
have been at the bottom of
the page here, by swap--just
changing the order in CSS to
make it show up second.
But when a screen
reader goes through,
a screen reader will
come through the title,
all this information, and hit
even this before the picture,
is something that they
hit with a screen reader.
So, that was really,
really, really awesome
to be able to do that, and it's
that one piece of information.
And so, it wasn't like
I was overwhelmed
about, "Oh, my god.
I--this whole WooCommerce
thing and accessibility."
I'm like, "I'm just
gonna take that piece."
Today, I learned something.
This is a white
background and that's black,
so I'm gonna gray that up.
So, I'm just gonna go through
the--with the CSS,
and I'm going to make the font a
little grayer instead of black
on white because I just learned
that, in one of the sessions
today, that people with certain
disabilities, the font will
start moving around,
so I'm like, "Got it."
It's not like I have to, like,
learn everything at once
and then go off and build.
And another one
that--this one happened,
actually, quite a while
ago, at the beginning,
with--when I first found
out about accessibility.
This is the one I was talking
about with the veneer artist,
and here's what I've ended up
doing with height and diameter.
Before, it was just this string
of numbers with primes and
double prime or whatever, and
you really didn't even know
which one was height or length.
And whoever did the
content in, the three people,
I think, over the years
who put the content in,
mixed those two up anyway, and
so what I ended up doing for him
is--this is another thing too,
you can actually corral the
client into being accessible by
providing information
on the back end.
I'm using something
called advanced custom fields,
and it may sound like
some kinda geeky thing
if you've never heard of it, but
once you get it under your belt
there's plenty of
documentation on it.
You just create
fields in the post
that they're custom for--that
you want for your client,
and then they're custom
to whatever they're doing,
and so what I ended up was
making these different--you can
just add the information here.
And I explained to him
how to do it, how to write,
and all he has to do is come
in--and anyone who's working.
There's no mistaking
this unless they just
don't read directions, okay?
So that's, like, you can do
these things to help keep the
content accessible because
that's what's gonna happen.
You're gonna let the site go,
and then you'll come back maybe
a few weeks later, and it's not
really working out because the
client wasn't educated on
headings and things like that.
And this is not--what's
going on here too
is--that clearly it does not
look like the Gutenberg editor.
It is not.
It is actually--this is a custom
post type that I created for his
projects, and that's another
geek-level thing and not--that
is not even
difficult to learn, either.
There's been some wonderful
presentations on that in
other--in meetups
and other WordCamps.
And so, a lot of times--does
classic editor,
so those people
who are still on the wire,
you can still have some
familiarity with that.
So, it's all these fields
that he needed
specifically for what he does.
And then, the page
looks like this.
So, that is the end of my
talk, and I guess we
can go for questions now.
And I got to figure
out what to do here.
Stop the share.
Is that what I'm doing?
I think so.
I just stopped the share.
Okay.
So, I can take questions now.
All right, Alicia.
Great job.
The funny thing is,
like, I was--you know,
I didn't know--you know, I
saw your finishing slide,
and then you said,
"But it's not the end."
And I was like, "Oh."
Then you started--then you--so,
you caught me off guard.
Like that--
you know when people clap
when they're at that last bit?
And you're like, "Oh,
oh, there was more, oops."
Yeah, I apologize.
One of the great things for the
audience to know about Alicia is
part of the inspiration and
rebirth that she described.
I went through the same
thing with our next speaker,
but the three of us, we got
together a few weeks ago to
promote this event because we
were so into accessibility.
And all three of our meetups did
a joint meetup on--it was called
"WordPress Meetup Accessibility
Day," so it's kinda cool
to see everyone doing it.
So, let's jump to
the questions here.
Let me refresh the page.
And again, thanks, everyone,
for--thanks everyone for chiming
in and being part of
the conversation here.
All right.
The first question is, "How
does art shape how you develop?"
Oh, how does
art shape how I develop?
That's why I do it.
Okay, honestly, I was a
fine artist for 15 years,
and there is a website up.
And, please, that person
doesn't exist who put that up.
It was an ex-boyfriend, and it's
literally the worst site you
will ever see on the
website, on the web.
And its, like, technical
aspects--it's aliciastrose.com.
It's an old HTML site that's
literally--like, you know the
ones that just kinda like suck
themselves into the corner?
It's like it
wasn't even--it's
bad, but my pictures
are on there.
So, I was a fine artist, and
then I would go on the Internet,
and I'm like, "I don't see a
reason why the internet
has to look like this."
And so then, I just said,
"I'm gonna be a web designer.
I'm gonna make things beautiful.
That's what I really wanna do."
And so, I was really, like,
close--I was really concerned
about the craft and
textures and things like that,
so art is a huge
part of what I do.
And I think coding
is an art form too.
Oh, that leads into
our next question perfectly.
We've got that synergy going.
"What caused a shift towards
accessibility and where do you
see this shaping
your development work?"
Oh, god, the shift was
definitely that meeting
that--the meetup
when Sumner showed up.
I mean, I was already, kind of,
into the headings thing and all
that stuff and, like,
"Don't use all caps.
It's screaming," and, you
know, things like that,
but it was more
leaning toward SEO.
But then, when I found out that
it violated civil rights--it was
separate but not equal to put
an overlay, and I had
one on something that--and
I--took me five minutes.
I took it off.
I was really--I came back.
I was like, "I just--"
I was like, "Excuse me.
I gotta go do something."
And I came back, and I told her.
And I was like, "Thank
god I got that off."
He's well-known in the
community too, and so,
and I see right now there's no
way it's gonna go back.
It's just gonna keep expanding
because at this point, the
internet's become
quite--it's a resource
and it's a lifeline,
so--and it's for everyone.
And not only that, like I--and
on--is that I was
also on a team called BRCvr.
We were one of the--highly
successful bringing Burning Man
to virtual reality, and they're
even bringing captions into
virtual reality,
and I had this fun--
See, what is happening, too,
is because of the exposure to
people, like the people who
are doing the sessions here,
like Meryl and then Sumner,
I was in a beta testing in
this--on one of these
platforms, virtual reality.
And I asked, "Is there
anyone in here who's deaf?"
And there wasn't, so
I had to tell 'em,
"This test probably
isn't gonna be effective.
You know, you have to have
someone who's actually deaf
to do these things," so.
Awesome, all right,
our next question,
"Having had an active design
business before learning
accessibility, how do
you deal with communicating with
clients when telling them
that something you did for them
doesn't meet
accessibility standards?"
Oh,
that's easy, guys.
Don't worry about that one.
The technology
marches on, I'm sorry.
It's like we gotta
get with the program.
I mean, even--a website--okay,
have you ever googled
lifespan of a website?
I googled it last year, and
it said five to seven years.
I googled it yesterday.
It said three to five,
or three to two.
The lifespan of the
current design of a website
is, like, three years.
They should be thinking
about getting a new website,
even if it's accessible or
not, so this is--a website's not
something, like, you purchase.
Like, it's, like, a cheap thing
you get at Kmart, and you think
it's gonna work for you to
make you a whole bunch of money.
It is a serious thing, and
people have to understand it's
an investment involved,
and so I really want
that to get imparted too.
And it's an evolving thing.
It's not something that
just you make it
and it sits there and works.
A website's never finished.
It's never finished.
It's like an evolving
thing, and
the content's always changing.
You always have to be kind
of like--it's like gardening.
Do you ever finish your garden?
You don't--garden's done,
or do you--every
season you're kinda like,
"I'm gonna grow
these bulbs bigger.
Or I'm gonna try
something else over there"?
That's exactly what
a website's like,
and you shouldn't--your garden
shouldn't be more important than
the website that's
supposed to be your livelihood.
All right, so we got time
for one more quick question,
and it's sorta tied into
one of the earlier questions.
"How has your thinking changed
in terms of your development
process or your mentoring
business since you've been
impacted by accessibility?"
Oh, man;
so accessibility is often--is
always on the
forefront of my mind.
It's whenever I'm doing
anything, almost every day I
have some--a conversation or a
little bit of an exchange
with somebody about something.
Just recently, there was
a theme that--you know,
there was--they weren't
underlining the links in the
admin because they wanted the
experience to be the same
as the front of the site.
And my links are underlined, but
they were the same color as the
content, so the
response was, "Well,
most people have
different colors, so."
I was like, "No, no, you
gotta keep the underline.
The underline has got to
stay in the admin, I mean--"
And then, I got a piece of code,
and it took away all of the
styling of the front-end stuff,
and so I explained, "That
experience is not the same
experience that
everyone's getting
because I wanna be--because
I want it to be accessible.
So, you have to have--the
experience has to be the same
for everybody, so the
underline should just show up."
And so, like, there's
just things like that,
so--and so--and I'm always,
like, explaining to people
a little bit at a time,
especially clients.
You don't wanna overwhelm them
because then it looks like it's
too much work and it's really not.
Awesome.
Well, thanks again, Alicia.
How can people get
you--find you on Twitter?
Oh, okay,
I put it at the end of
this--on the slides, but it's
IntrepidRealist on Twitter.
Awesome; well, thanks again
and thanks, everyone,
for attending this
session with Alicia and myself.
You can continue the
conversation on Twitter at
WordPress Accessibility
Day, #WPAccessibilityDay,
#WPAD2020, or @WPAccessibility.
Don't forget to
attend our next talk,
"The Profitability of
Accessibility" with Sumner
Davenport at 4 p.m.,
at 4 o'clock UTC,
here on this same channel.
See you right
after a brief break.